# Master-Thesis--Investigation-of-CMOS-Amplifiers-for-Low-Noise-Application

A low noise amplifier had to be designed for a magneto-electric sensor. Understanding the noise limitations is of high importance for the magnetic input signal. It has been observed from the system frequency response that the mechanical resonance of interest is at about 515kHz. The carrier signal noise for the lowest amplitude of the ME sensor is about 2μV/√Hz. Thus, the desired low-noise amplifier must exhibit a noise less than 2μV/√Hz. One of the major requirements for the amplifier is its higher gain. Thus conventional low-noise amplifier with lower gain could not be used for the application. In this master thesis work, initially, common-source, common-gate, common-drain, bulk-driven, and common-source cascode amplifiers were designed. The best noise performance from the amplifiers was observed for a common-source amplifier with cascode current source load with an input-referred noise of 87.23nV/√Hz. For a higher gain and a lower input noise, a single-stage folded cascode amplifier, a single-stage differential amplifier, and a 2-stage differential amplifier were designed for both the NMOS and PMOS input stages. All the amplifiers were designed for a gain bandwidth of 70MHz and a gain close to 45-50dB. Due to its very high CMRR, phase margin, and PSRR, the folded cascode amplifier with PMOS input-stage was chosen for development. The input stage of the PMOS-input folded cascode amplifier was substituted by a lateral BJT input stage and the simulation results exhibited an input referred noise of 12.47nV/√Hz at the frequency of interest at 500KHz, a gain of 57.79dB, gain-bandwidth of 96.38MHz, CMRR and PSRR of 105.3dB and -78.82dB respectively. After that, process-temperature variations and Monte Carlo simulations were performed for the amplifier and it exhibited suitable results for the design. Finally, the layout of the amplifier was designed, and the post-layout simulation displayed values similar to those in the pre-layout simulation.
